# CplusplusProgram-
This project was the third submission for my C++ class. We were presented with the need for a console program to use a text file list of items purchased as input, interpret the data and display it in a user-friendly manner. The user was to be presented with three menu options: 1) consolidate the data into individual items and the frequency at which they were purchased; 2) Ability to search for a single item and see the frequency it was purchased; 3) Display a graph of all items and the frequency of purchase; 4) Exit the program.

I enjoy writing functions to simplify my code. As often as possible, I simplified my code into callable functions in both C++ and Python. I would love to expand upon the program, adding features and functionality. Adding a user input for the text file location, allowing for more searches based on frequency of purchase. I think I could write more functions to handle the display of my output, creating a more intricate and engaging UI.

This project was most challenging while learning the difference between .txt and .dat files and how to open, read, and write to them in C++ and Python. I ended up having to do some independent research online to fully understand how these data files operated differently. 
Using different languages to complement each other is extremely common inside projects. I have done it previously with Python/JavaScript and PHP/JavaScript. C++ Is a powerful compiler language that prior to this course I had very little experience working with. Learning to use Python for calculations within the C++ program is incredibly useful for future work. 

Encapsulating as much as possible into individual functions makes a program easy to maintain, update, and expand upon. Adding features is simpler, as you can build upon and call functions you have already written. Adding future features to this program would be as simple as adding a few lines of code to check for the new menu selection, and a function to perform the desired operation. 
